Racial Disparity in High School Graduation in North Carolina
================

# Introduction

High school graduation rates have been steadily increasing in recent
years. In addition, this increase in graduation rates is seen across
different demographic groups. Graduation rates for minority students,
such as Black, Hispanic and American Indian/Alaska Native students, have
also been increasing and closing the gap with White students.

Itâ€™s important to note that while graduation rates have been increasing,
there are still disparities among different demographic groups. Some
racial groups have lower graduation rates than the national average.

# Data and Report

Here is my **[report](/P12HSG02.html)** by analyzing high school
graduation in North Carolina. I downloaded the data from [NC
PDI](https://www.dpi.nc.gov/districts-schools/testing-and-school-accountability/school-accountability-and-reporting/cohort-graduation-rates#4-YearCohortGraduationRates-883).
The EXCEL file includes high school students and graduates enrolled from
SY2005-2006 to SY 2021-2022 in NC public schools.

# Findings

It clearly shows that the high school graduation rate, for each racial
groups, has been **increasing since 2006** in North Carolina.

According to the data, Asian students have the highest graduation rate
among all races. White students have the second highest graduation rate,
followed by African American students. Hispanic students have the lowest
graduation rate among these four races.

It is important to note that these graduation rates may vary depending
on the specific school or district being considered, as well as other
factors such as socioeconomic status and access to resources.

However, overall, Asian and white students tend to have higher
graduation rates than African American and Hispanic students.

# Discussion

There are several potential reasons why Asian and white students may
have higher graduation rates compared to African American and Hispanic
students.

One reason may be that Asian and white students often come from higher
socio-economic backgrounds, which can provide them with more resources
and support for their education.

Additionally, certain schools or districts may be more geared towards
the success of Asian and white students, leading to higher graduation
rates among these groups.

There may also be cultural factors at play, such as a greater emphasis
on education within certain communities. It is also important to
consider that there may be systemic inequalities within the education
system that disproportionately impact African American and Hispanic
students, leading to lower graduation rates among these groups.

Overall, the reasons for these disparities in graduation rates are
complex and multifaceted.
